Salesforce DEX 403 Notes

- Apps have built in security.
- Built in business logic.

Why choose salesforce?
- Ability for nontechnical person maintain and make changes through ui.

Ability to gain new features is a key aspect

Declaritive is faster than coding.
Easier to maintain.
Automatic accesss to updates of the feature sett.
no coding skills required.

programattic customisations - 
greater flexibility and more complex logic
visualfoce give full pixel capabilities compared to standard features

most applications become a blend of declaritive and programattic

As a dev-
You want to learn both declaritive and programattic 

App- Collection of tabs grouped together around a specific business function.

Job_application is a junction object.

Lookup create a one to many relationship.

Many to many relationship
- Use of a junction object,
- A Child of two parents
- Most basic is two id's of the objects.

Salesforce Object is analogous to tables in a database.

Object security is greater than field level security
- Security object
-

Objects are a higher levle of abstraction that a table.

More than tables in a database.

At the most fundamental level - it is a lot like a table in a database.

Objects
- Standard -  provided out of the box
- Custom - Created by ourselves to extend the data model
- System - System, Users, Roles

Junction Objects,

is a custom object with two master-detail relationships.
It allows you to model a "many-to-many" relationship between two objects.


External Objects,

An external object is similar to a customer object but maps to data stored 
outside of Salesforce accessed via Salesforce Connect.

Salesforce Connect is a data integration tool that connects external data and gives it native
platform ability inside Salesforce.

Profile,

Profiles define how users access objects and data, and what users can do in Salesforce. 
When you create users, you must assign exactly one profile to each user.

Permission sets,

Permission sets are groups of permissions that can be assigned to specific users in addition
to their existing profile permissions.

Permission set groups,

Permission set groups allow you to combine multiple permission sets into a single permission
set group for user assignment.
